"ocean s twelve raids box office ocean s twelve  the crime caper sequel starring george clooney  brad pitt and julia roberts  has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales  according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week s number one  national treasure  into third place. wesley snipes  blade: trinity was in second  taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express  starring tom hanks  and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean s twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us  after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor  ocean s eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film  starring frank sinatra and the rat pack  ocean s eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney  pitt and roberts with matt damon  andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast.  it s just a fun  good holiday movie   said dan fellman  president of distribution at warner bros. however  us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project  with the los angeles times labelling it a  dispiriting vanity project . a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel  unabashedly trivial ."
"last star wars  not for children  the sixth and final star wars movie may not be suitable for young children  film-maker george lucas has said.  he told us tv show 60 minutes that revenge of the sith would be the darkest and most violent of the series.  i don t think i would take a five or six-year-old to this   he told the cbs programme  to be aired on sunday. lucas predicted the film would get a us rating advising parents some scenes may be unsuitable for under-13s. it opens in the uk and us on 19 may. he said he expected the film would be classified pg-13 - roughly equivalent to a british 12a rating.  the five previous star wars films have all carried less restrictive pg - parental guidance - ratings in the us. in the uk  they have all been passed u - suitable for all - with the exception of attack of the clones  which got a pg rating in 2002. revenge of the sith - the third prequel to the original 1977 star wars film - chronicles the transformation of the heroic anakin skywalker into the evil darth vader as he travels to a hell-like planet composed of erupting volcanoes and molten lava.  we re going to watch him make a pact with the devil   lucas said.  the film is much more dark  more emotional. it s much more of a tragedy."
"berlin cheers for anti-nazi film a german movie about an anti-nazi resistance heroine has drawn loud applause at berlin film festival.  sophie scholl - the final days portrays the final days of the member of the white rose movement. scholl  21  was arrested and beheaded with her brother  hans  in 1943 for distributing leaflets condemning the  abhorrent tyranny  of adolf hitler. director marc rothemund said:  i have a feeling of responsibility to keep the legacy of the scholls going.   we must somehow keep their ideas alive   he added.  the film drew on transcripts of gestapo interrogations and scholl s trial preserved in the archive of communist east germany s secret police. their discovery was the inspiration behind the film for rothemund  who worked closely with surviving relatives  including one of scholl s sisters  to ensure historical accuracy on the film. scholl and other members of the white rose resistance group first started distributing anti-nazi leaflets in the summer of 1942. they were arrested as they dropped leaflets at munich university calling for a  day of reckoning  with adolf hitler s regime. the film focuses on the six days from scholl s arrest to the intense trial which saw scholl initially deny the charges and ended with a defiant appearance. it is one of three german films vying for a top prize at the festival.  a south african film version of bizet s tragic opera carmen shot in cape town in the xhosa language has also premiered at the berlin festival. the film is entitled u-carmen ekhayelitsha or carmen in khayelitsha after the township in which the story is set. it is performed by a 40-strong music and theatre troupe in their debut film performance. the film is the first south african feature in 25 years and only the second to be nominated for a golden bear award."
"career honour for actor dicaprio actor leonardo dicaprio s  exceptional career  has been honoured at the santa barbara international film festival.  the star was presented with the award by martin scorsese  who directed him in oscar-nominated movie the aviator.  it s a lifetime achievement award  which is completely and utterly surreal  given i m only 30 years old   dicaprio said.  but what has it been  almost 17 years now. i ve done quite a few films.  a retrospective of his movies was shown.   what s really exciting  for me  is that this is what i really love doing   he added.  it s what i want to do for the rest of my life.  dicaprio began his movie career in horror film critters 3  before moving onto roles in the basketball diaries  romeo and juliet  titanic and gangs of new york. the achievement award was created to commemorate the california festival s 20th anniversary and coincided with dicaprio s portrayal of millionaire howard hughes in the aviator.  veteran actress jane russell  who starred in hughes  1943 film the outlaw  said was impressed by dicaprio s quest for authenticity when he previously discussed the role with her.  i was very happy that (dicaprio) came and cared to come up and find out what (hughes) was really like   she said. the aviator has taken pole position in this year s oscars race with 11 nominations  including nominations for best film  best actor for dicaprio and best director for scorsese."
"halloween writer debra hill dies screenwriter and producer debra hill  best known for her work on the 70s horror classic halloween  has died in los angeles aged 54.  hill  who had been suffering from cancer  co-wrote the 1978 film  which starred jamie lee curtis as a babysitter terrorised by a psychopath. directed by john carpenter  it made over $60m (£31.3m) worldwide - a record for independent film at that time. hill also worked with carpenter on escape from new york and the fog. born in new jersey  hill began her career as a production assistant and worked her way through the ranks  becoming an assistant director and second-unit director before she began collaborating with carpenter.  she was regarded by many as a pioneering woman in film  taking on jobs in the 70s that were more commonly taken by men.  back when i started in 1974  there were very few women in the industry   she said in 2003.  i was assumed to be the make-up and hair person  or the script person. i was never assumed to be the writer or producer.   i took a look around and realised there weren t that many women  so i had to carve a niche for myself.  carpenter said that working with hill was  one of the greatest experiences of my life .  the ground that she trailblazed in the beginning can now be followed by anyone. she was incredibly capable and talented   he said. carpenter and hill collaborated on a number of halloween sequels  including halloween ii  halloween: resurrection and halloween: the curse of michael myers.  later in her career  hill formed a production company with her friend lynda obst  making a string of hit films including oscar nominee the fisher king and teen comedy adventures in babysitting. other films included the stephen king adaptation the dead zone in 1983 and 1985 s clue  a comedy based on the board game cluedo. in the 90s she pursued work in tv  although she was reunited with carpenter in 1996 for escape from la  the sequel to escape from new york. at the time of her death she was working on a film about the last two men pulled from the rubble of the twin towers following the 11 september terror attacks in 2001. she was also co-producing the remake of the fog  which is due for release early next year."
