"howard hits back at mongrel jibe michael howard has said a claim by peter hain that the tory leader is acting like an  attack mongrel  shows labour is  rattled  by the opposition.  in an upbeat speech to his party s spring conference in brighton  he said labour s campaigning tactics proved the tories were hitting home. mr hain made the claim about tory tactics in the anti-terror bill debate.  something tells me that someone  somewhere out there is just a little bit rattled   mr howard said. mr hain  leader of the commons  told bbc radio four s today programme that mr howard s stance on the government s anti-terrorism legislation was putting the country at risk. he then accused the tory leader of behaving like an  attack mongrel  and  playing opposition for opposition sake .  mr howard told his party that labour would  do anything  say anything  claim anything to cling on to office at all costs .  so far this year they have compared me to fagin  to shylock and to a flying pig. this morning peter hain even called me a mongrel.  i don t know about you  but something tells me that someone  somewhere out there is just a little bit rattled.  environment secretary margaret beckett rejected mr howard s comment  telling radio 4 s pm programme that labour was not  rattled .  we have a very real duty to try to get people to focus on michael howard s record  what the proposals are that he is trying to put forward to the country and also the many examples we are seeing now of what we believe is really poor judgement on his behalf.   mr howard said tory policies on schools  taxes  immigration and crime were striking a chord with voters.   since the beginning of this year - election year - we ve been making the political weather   he told the party conference. mr howard denied he had been  playing politics  by raising the case of margaret dixon  whose operation had been cancelled seven times  which grabbed headlines for the party two weeks ago. and he hit back at labour claims he had used mrs dixon as a  human shield .  she s not a human shield mr blair  she s a human being.  mr howard said his party plans for immigration quotas  which have also been the focus of much media coverage  were not  racist  - just  common sense .  he pledged cleaner hospitals and better school discipline  with a promise to get rid of  political correctness  in the national curriculum and give everyone to the same chance of a  decent  state education as he had.  i come from an ordinary family. if the teenage michael howard were applying to cambridge today  gordon brown would love me.   and he stressed his party s commitment to cut taxes and red tape and increase the basic state pension in line with earnings. he finished with a personal appeal to party activists to go out and win the next election.  one day you will be able to tell your children and grandchildren as i will tell mine   i was there. i did my bit. i played my part. i helped to win that famous election - the election that transformed our country for the better .  labour election co-ordinator alan milburn said:  michael howard s speech today confirms what we have always said - that his only strategy is opportunism but he has no forward vision for the country. in reference to the appearance of mr howard s family on the conference stage with him  mr milburn said:  michael howard is perfectly entitled to pose with his family today.  but it is the hard working families across britain that will be damaged by his plan to cut £35bn from public spending."
"blair prepares to name poll date tony blair is likely to name 5 may as election day when parliament returns from its easter break  the bbc s political editor has learned.  andrew marr says mr blair will ask the queen on 4 or 5 april to dissolve parliament at the end of that week. mr blair has so far resisted calls for him to name the day but all parties have stepped up campaigning recently. downing street would not be drawn on the claim  saying election timing was a matter for the prime minister.  a number 10 spokeswoman would only say:  he will announce an election when he wants to announce an election.  the move will signal a frantic week at westminster as the government is likely to try to get key legislation through parliament. the government needs its finance bill  covering the budget plans  to be passed before the commons closes for business at the end of the session on 7 april.  but it will also seek to push through its serious and organised crime bill and id cards bill. mr marr said on wednesday s today programme:  there s almost nobody at a senior level inside the government or in parliament itself who doesn t expect the election to be called on 4 or 5 april.  as soon as the commons is back after the short easter recess  tony blair whips up to the palace  asks the queen to dissolve parliament ... and we re going.  the labour government officially has until june 2006 to hold general election  but in recent years governments have favoured four-year terms."
"hague  given up  his pm ambition former conservative leader william hague says he will not stand for the leadership again  having given up his ambition to be prime minister.  mr hague  43  told the daily telegraph he would now find a life dominated by politics too  boring  and unfulfilling. mr hague  who stepped down after his party s 2001 election defeat  does not rule out a return to the front bench. he also told the paper he hopes to remain mp for richmond  north yorks  and start a family with wife ffion. mr hague  who recently had published the biography of william pitt the younger  also said he wanted to continue writing books and speech-writing.  he told the newspaper:  i don t know whether i will ever go back on to the front  but don t rush me.  asked if he would stand for the leadership again  mr hague replied:  no. definitely not.  his determination to stay away from a central role will disappoint some senior conservative members  who say the party needs him. tim collins  the shadow education secretary  said last week it would be a  huge boost  to the party if mr hague returned to the front bench. mr hague became an mp at 27 and leader of the opposition at 36. he said:  i feel fortunate that  by the age of 40  i had crammed in an entire political career.  i had been in the cabinet and been leader of the party  so now i can branch out into other things...it is a very liberating feeling.  mr hague added that he may have misjudged his own ambition to be prime minister.  maybe i wasn t as driven by politics as i thought i was   he said."
"howard backs stem cell research michael howard has backed stem cell research  saying it is important people are not frightened of the future.  the controversial issue was a feature of the recent us presidential election  where george bush opposed extending it. but the tory leader argued there was a moral case for embracing science which could help victims of alzheimer s  parkinson s and motor neurone disease.  i believe we have a duty to offer hope to the millions of people who suffer devastating illnesses   he said. the use of embryonic stem cells in the uk is already allowed. stem cells are master cells that have the ability to develop into any of the body s tissue types. scientists hope that by growing such cells in the laboratory they can programme them to form specific tissue such as kidney  heart or even brain tissue.  mr howard acknowledged there were genuine concerns about stem cell research. but he argued:  we mustn t be frightened of change or nostalgic about the past - we must be optimistic about the future.  politicians must create the right framework so that the great potential of science can be harnessed for the benefit of mankind.  with the life expectancy of the average briton now around the mid-70s  society has a responsibility to enhance the quality of people s lives as they grow older.  i know many people are concerned about stem-cell research. they are fearful of meddling with what they see as the stuff of souls.  i respect those concerns. but i also believe we have a duty to offer hope to the millions of people who suffer devastating illnesses like parkinson s  multiple sclerosis  motor neurone disease  alzheimer s and - as we saw in the papers today - now possibly heart problems.   mr howard acknowledged there were  no easy answers  over such an issue but it was necessary to  have the courage to do what we know to be morally right . he added:  of course  stem cells are still a recent discovery. more research needs to be done. but we must look at their potential in a responsible and grown-up way. the hopes of millions of people rest on what could be achieved.  former superman actor the late christopher reeve was an advocate for the research after he was paralysed in a horse riding accident. mr howard made his remarks during a speech in westminster to the conservative national women s committee on ambitions and values."
